 Hi, this is Sathath here. If you are working in the software industry, there are more chances for you to come across the word containers. In this video, I would like to share what is a container with a little example. Imagine you have two jaw apps that only work some particular version of Java, and you want to run both of these apps simultaneously. Your computer can have only one version of Java at a time. What will you do in this situation? There are two methods that we are going to discuss in this video. Method one is virtual machine. What is a virtual machine? Virtual machine is nothing but a computer that is running virtually on top of your real computer. Now, spin up your virtual machine, VM1 and VM2, there has a separate ways for them each. Install Java 8 in VM1 and Java 11 in VM2 first. Then run your apps inside these VMs. Now, you have both of your apps running simultaneously on your computer. But why run two entire OS that has a lot of resources to run little apps? That's where this method to come is. Containerization. What is containerization? It is just a method of isolating a process from other processes running in your computer. How do you run your app as a container? You have to put together your process and its dependencies and built it as a container image. If this image runs on your computer, it will run anywhere. Now, you can port this container image to any computer and run it without any problems. What is a container image? Container image is a kind of instruction file that tells the underlying container runtime on how to handle your apps when running as a container. Still, what is a container? If you run your container image packed with your app, then it is called a container. Now, coming back to our example, here our app is a process and Java is the dependency. Pack and build this into a container image and then execute it. Now, you have both of your apps running as a container peacefully together without consuming any additional resources like the VMDOS. I hope this video answered you these questions. What is containerization? What is a container image? What is a container and what is a container runtime? If you find this video useful, here thumbs up will be great and if you liked the join my join your cloud engineer, subscribe to this channel. You can contact me anytime in any of the social media links attached in the description. Thanks for watching.